#labels Featured,Phase-Implementation,Phase-Deploy
= Installation =

_Tested Server environment :_
  * Ubuntu Server 10.10 LTS 64bits.
  * Java(TM) SE Runtime Environment (build 1.6.0_26-b03).
  * *Alfresco Community 4.0.d*.
  * MySQL 5.1.61-0ubuntu0.10.10.1 (for Alfresco and sample Connectors).
  * MSSQL Server 2005 (for sample tested Connectors).
  * PostgreSQL 7 (for sample tested Connectors).
  * Oracle Express 11g (for sample tested Connectors).

_Tested Browsers :_
  * Chromium & Google Chrome 18.0.1025.151
  * Mozilla Firefox 3.6.6 for Windows & 11.0 for Ubuntu Desktop
  * Internet Explorer 8.0.6001.18702
  * Opera 11.62

_Prerequisites :_
  * An Alfresco instance running and jdbc driver jar file in tomcat/lib folder (if different to MySQL).
  * Installation of AMP module in alfresco.war, sakilaDB files in local (or accesible) MySQL server and copy of jar file in Share webapp lib folder.

*_Deploy Steps :_*<br><br>
*1*.Stop Alfresco Server.<br><br>
_#Alfresco amp module installation_<br>
*2*.Copy [http://alfresco-metadbconnector.googlecode.com/files/mdbc-1.0-SNAPSHOT.amp mdbc-1.0-SNAPSHOT.amp] file to $ALF_ROOT/amps<br>
*3*.Remove directories :<br>
-$ALF_ROOT/tomcat/webapps/alfresco<br>
-$ALF_ROOT/tomcat/work/Catalina/localhost/alfresco<br>
-$ALF_ROOT/tomcat/work/Catalina/localhost/share<br>
*4*.Install the amp in alfresco war file with the command :<br>
cd $ALF_ROOT<br>
sudo java -jar bin/alfresco-mmt.jar install amps/mdbc-1.0-SNAPSHOT.amp tomcat/webapps/alfresco.war<br>
(note we use sudo because the installation path is /opt/alfresco-4.0.d and the command is launched for a non-root user)<br><br>
_#Alfresco Share jar file_<br>
*5*.Copy [http://alfresco-metadbconnector.googlecode.com/files/share-mdbc-component-0.1.jar share-mdbc-component-0.1.jar] to $ALF_ROOT/tomcat/webapps/share/WEB-INF/lib<br>
*6*.Start the Server.<br><br>

= Configuration and Extension =

*_Sample Default Configuration_*<br>
By default there are two connectors defined in AMP module :<br>
-$ALF_ROOT/tomcat/webapps/alfresco/WEB-INF/classes/alfresco/module/mdbc/connectors/*customer-connector.xml*<br>
-$ALF_ROOT/tomcat/webapps/alfresco/WEB-INF/classes/alfresco/module/mdbc/connectors/*country-connector.xml*<br>
These connectors are configured for query a MySQL public database called "[http://dev.mysql.com/doc/sakila/en/sakila.html SakilaDB]".<br>
To install the Sakila sample database go to [http://dev.mysql.com/doc/sakila/en/sakila.html#sakila-installation Installation] instructions (Win based) or use the following commands (Unix based) :<br>
_You can download a copy of database schema and data from this project download section ([http://alfresco-metadbconnector.googlecode.com/files/sakila-db.zip SakilaDB file])_<br>
mysql -u root -p < path/to/sakila-schema.sql<br>
(Enter root password)<br>
mysql -u root -p < path/to/sakila-data.sql<br>
(Enter root password)<br>
If there are no errors, the process is completed successfully.<br><br>
NOTE : For use MySQL jdbc Driver on our MetaDBConnectors, customer or country for example, ensure that mysql-connector-java-5.?.?.jar file already exists in $ALF_ROOT/tomcat/lib folder.<br><br>

*_Extension Procedure_*<br>
To carry out the process of generating our own "Connectors" elegantly we recommend downloading the source code, available on the [http://code.google.com/p/alfresco-metadbconnector/source/checkout source code Tab] and adapt it, following the existing "Connectors" examples, to our needs.<br>
On the other hand you can carry out the configuration of the component content in the original files of the AMP module adapting it to our needs, but what we suggest is to locate any file that can be modified to the folder tomcat/shared/classes/alfresco. This will require defining some configuration files that perform load changes placed in this extension path.<br><br>

*_Sample Extension Procedure_*<br>
ToDO